add incremental landing page (#5099)
dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/build/incremental-strategy.md

---
title: "Incremental strategy"
description: "Learn about the various ways (strategies) to implement incremental materializations."
id: "incremental-strategy"
---

> There are various ways (strategies) to implement the concept of incremental materializations. The value of each strategy depends on:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are various strategies to implement the concept of incremental materializations. The value of each strategy depends on:
```

> * the volume of data,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The volume of data.
```

> * the reliability of your `unique_key`, and

Reviewer: Per our style guide these shouldn't end in conjunctions
```suggestion
* The reliability of your `unique_key`.
```

> * the support of certain features in your data platform

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The support of certain features in your data platform.
```

| [dbt-spark](/reference/resource-configs/spark-configs#incremental-models)                           |     ✅    |    ✅  |                  |          ✅        |
| [dbt-databricks](/reference/resource-configs/databricks-configs#incremental-models)                 |     ✅    |    ✅   |                 |          ✅        |
| [dbt-snowflake](/reference/resource-configs/snowflake-configs#merge-behavior-incremental-models)    |     ✅    |    ✅   |        ✅       |                    |
| [dbt-trino](/reference/resource-configs/trino-configs#incremental)                                  |     ✅    |    ✅   |        ✅       |                    |

</VersionBlock>

<VersionBlock firstVersion="1.3">

:::note Snowflake Configurations

dbt v1.3 changed the default materialization for incremental table merges from `temporary table` to `view`. For more information about this change and instructions for setting the configuration to a temp table, please read about [Snowflake temporary tables](/reference/resource-configs/snowflake-configs#temporary-tables).

:::

</VersionBlock>

### Configuring incremental strategy

> The `incremental_strategy` config can either be specified in specific models, or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `incremental_strategy` config can either be defined in specific models or
```

for all models in your `dbt_project.yml` file:

<File name='dbt_project.yml'>

```yaml
models:
  +incremental_strategy: "insert_overwrite"
```

</File>

or:

<File name='models/my_model.sql'>

```sql
{{
  config(
    materialized='incremental',
    unique_key='date_day',
    incremental_strategy='delete+insert',
    ...
  )
}}

select ...
```

</File>

<VersionBlock firstVersion="1.3">

### Strategy-specific configs

> If you are using the `merge` strategy and have specified a `unique_key`, by default, dbt will entirely overwrite matched rows with new values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use the `merge` strategy and specify a `unique_key`, by default, dbt will entirely overwrite matched rows with new values.
```

<File name='models/my_model.sql'>

```sql
{{
  config(
    materialized = 'incremental',
    unique_key = 'id',
    merge_update_columns = ['email', 'ip_address'],
    ...
  )
}}

select ...
```

</File>

Alternatively, you can specify a list of columns to exclude from being updated by passing a list of column names to a `merge_exclude_columns` config.

<File name='models/my_model.sql'>

```sql
{{
  config(
    materialized = 'incremental',
    unique_key = 'id',
    merge_exclude_columns = ['created_at'],
    ...
  )
}}

select ...
```

</File>

</VersionBlock>

<VersionBlock firstVersion="1.4">

### About incremental_predicates

`incremental_predicates` is an advanced use of incremental models, where data volume is large enough to justify additional investments in performance. This config accepts a list of any valid SQL expression(s). dbt does not check the syntax of the SQL statements. 

> This an example of a model configuration in a `yml` file we might expect to see on Snowflake:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This an example of a model configuration in a `yml` file you might expect to see on Snowflake:
```

| `delete+insert`        | `get_incremental_delete_insert_sql`    |
| `merge`                | `get_incremental_merge_sql`            |
| `insert_overwrite`     | `get_incremental_insert_overwrite_sql` |

For example, a built-in strategy for the `append` can be defined and used with the following files:

<File name='macros/append.sql'>

```sql
{% macro get_incremental_append_sql(arg_dict) %}

  {% do return(some_custom_macro_with_sql(arg_dict["target_relation"], arg_dict["temp_relation"], arg_dict["unique_key"], arg_dict["dest_columns"], arg_dict["incremental_predicates"])) %}

{% endmacro %}

{% macro some_custom_macro_with_sql(target_relation, temp_relation, unique_key, dest_columns, incremental_predicates) %}

    {%- set dest_cols_csv = get_quoted_csv(dest_columns | map(attribute="name")) -%}

    insert into {{ target_relation }} ({{ dest_cols_csv }})
    (
        select {{ dest_cols_csv }}
        from {{ temp_relation }}
    )

{% endmacro %}
```
</File>

Define a model models/my_model.sql:

```sql
{{ config(
    materialized="incremental",
    incremental_strategy="append",
) }}

select * from {{ ref("some_model") }}
```

### Custom strategies

> <VersionBlock lastVersion="1.1">

Reviewer: Can probably delete this as our docs now start at v1.2

Custom incremental strategies can be defined beginning in dbt v1.2.

</VersionBlock>

<VersionBlock firstVersion="1.2">

> As an easier alternative to [creating an entirely new materialization](/guides/create-new-materializations), users can define and use their own "custom" user-defined incremental strategies by:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As an easier alternative to [creating an entirely new materialization](/guides/create-new-materializations), users can define and use their own "custom" incremental strategies by:
```

> 1. defining a macro named `get_incremental_STRATEGY_sql`. Note that `STRATEGY` is a placeholder and you should replace it with the name of your custom incremental strategy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Defining a macro named `get_incremental_STRATEGY_sql`. Note that `STRATEGY` is a placeholder and you should replace it with the name of your custom incremental strategy.
```

> 2. configuring `incremental_strategy: STRATEGY` within an incremental model

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Configuring `incremental_strategy: STRATEGY` within an incremental model.
```

For example, a user-defined strategy named `insert_only` can be defined and used with the following files:

<File name='macros/my_custom_strategies.sql'>

```sql
{% macro get_incremental_insert_only_sql(arg_dict) %}

  {% do return(some_custom_macro_with_sql(arg_dict["target_relation"], arg_dict["temp_relation"], arg_dict["unique_key"], arg_dict["dest_columns"], arg_dict["incremental_predicates"])) %}

{% endmacro %}

{% macro some_custom_macro_with_sql(target_relation, temp_relation, unique_key, dest_columns, incremental_predicates) %}

    {%- set dest_cols_csv = get_quoted_csv(dest_columns | map(attribute="name")) -%}

    insert into {{ target_relation }} ({{ dest_cols_csv }})
    (
        select {{ dest_cols_csv }}
        from {{ temp_relation }}
    )

{% endmacro %}
```

</File>

<File name='models/my_model.sql'>

```sql
{{ config(
    materialized="incremental",
    incremental_strategy="insert_only",
    ...
) }}

...
```

</File>

### Custom strategies from a package

To use the `merge_null_safe` custom incremental strategy from the `example` package:
- [Install the package](/docs/build/packages#how-do-i-add-a-package-to-my-project)

> - Then add the following macro to your project:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add the following macro to your project:
```
